in terms of skeletons in my house but a
whole horse skeleton got a mold skeleton
and armadillos and water buzzer and a
monkey and a Chinese water deer skull
and two sheep skeleton I do have a lot
of skulls dogs cats grey seals common
seals goats sheep Wallabies matches as
foxes and frogs primates and hedgehogs
rats mice throughs yeah that's pretty
much the top my head I'm Ben Garrett and
I'm a primatologist working in primate
evolution studying for a PhD at the
moment my passion though just skeleton
is I started I was 10 it was a very
strange child I'm not really sure how I
know how to put a skeleton together but
there's so few textbooks and there's
actually nobody out there who can do
this it's a case of learning through
trial and error if just getting life for
us it's just a knack it's some people
are very good at maybe bird-watching I
guess mine is knowing how to put
skeletons together I think my superpower
starting with a whole animal the first
and most important process is to
actually strip it down so involves lots
of dissecting quite gruesome but you
have to skin the animal take out all the
organs take out the flesh the muscle
it's quite a long process involving from
chemicals different physical processes
my barbecue is used for processing dead
stuff at the moment we've got everything
from a cat skull to seagull to
incredibly unusual rear legs in these
tubs and buried around the garden we
actually have some cetacean heads now
different whales and dolphins believe it
or not they're buried in a mixture of
horse elephant and rhino poo it's
actually the best combination in order
to get nice beautiful clean skull from
there you then have a big set of bones
which you need to put together and I
admit this looks quite terrifying
because from this you'll have to make a
whole skeleton doesn't come the set of
instructions or place a next to be it's
just a box of bones and it's usually the
case I'll build up the metal framework
to actually build the real skeleton
around a metal skeleton eventually you
get the finished product like this
little European mole his tails not on
yet but he's very very nearly finished
it's very long very fun process so this
is the whole skeleton it's for a
university in the UK and it's for their
coins science degree the reason there's
so many bands and lucky bands attached
to it is to hold all the ribs in place
while they're drying so far most of the
ribs are attached there's 18 pairs 100
lastik bands there's probably about 10
kilos of metal it's nowhere near
finished yet there's got lots and lots
of work to do it's taking about 18
months to get this one
so this is my buzzards just so simple it
took two weeks to clean the actual
animal downs and from there it took just
a week put the skeleton together very
quick very simple and it's one of the
nicest projects I've ever worked on
it's a lovely skeleton - really nice
Oscar which is come out really well lots
of movement in there you really get the
essence of the bird itself that's why
this is one of my favorites sometimes I
get stuff like this which is Ana coffee
leg from the grant Museum in London now
it should look nice and clean like this
but you can see it's bright orange
that's fungus mold oil because the guy
who cleaned at 100 150 years ago didn't
use a beautiful set of tools to do it
very delicately he just boiled and
boiled and boiled and so all the flesh
was off but the oil was left in there
now what I'll do I'll treat it with a
lot of chemicals which won't damage the
bone they'll get all this horrible gunk
out and cannot paint as good as new
I guess the favorite skeleton I've ever
worked on is a chimpanzee at Bristol Zoo
because I am by nature primatologist to
my work it's very nice to work with a
primate skeleton and there she had a big
bump on her head
which is an abscess in one to four so
some skeletons I think have character
got a Chinese water deer and I'm working
on right now getting the skeleton I
actually see that the whole left side of
his body was deformed and his hoar hip
didn't Fentress pelvis and you really
get a feel that an animal that's so
physically deformed it's still a huge
male in his prime fighting you get a
real feel for who the animal was and
what animal was something
you